>> Maximiliano Firtman: So, we're going
to start talking about the classic design
patterns, but applied in JavaScript,
I think that part is important.
So, these are the ones
coming from this book.
Should I mean,
am I recommending you to read the book?
So, I have the book, I have, actually,
I think it's the fourth edition,
this is the first edition of the cover.
If you read the book today, also,
if you're a web developer,
it's hard to read, right?
So it's really hard, it's not safe
because it's from a design point of view.
Of course,
it's not close to the implementation.
So you have a lot of UML, diagrams there.
So I think it's not close
to a web developer, so
it's not talking to a web developer,
the book.
So I mean, if you like that stuff it's
a good book, but yeah it's hard to read.
So typically most of these
patterns are around OOP solutions,
Object Oriented Programming solutions,
that we mentioned before
that in JavaScript.
We can simulate, emulate,
use some of those ideas, but
it's not a 100% OOP language,
which means that some of
the solutions that are there might
not be suitable for JavaScript.
So and there they are categorized
in creational design patterns.
We'll get into those in a second,
and I will show you two or
three examples of each, structural or
behavioral design pattern.
In JavaScript, there were a lot of design
patterns that are now covered by ES6.
So before ES6, that's 2015, before that,
there were a lot of ideas that were
available as design patterns and
ways to implement that, but
from ECMAScript 6, and actually for
the New versions of ECMAScript, there are
different ways to solve the same problems.
ECMAScript 2020, 2022 has added
a lot of features to the, for
example, the class syntax in JavaScript.
Also, if you wanna learn more about that,
there is a professional JavaScript course
of Frontend Masters,
covering all these features.
But that means that if you google, for
example, JavaScript design patterns,
you will find a lot of solutions that
are kind of outdated these days.
There are a lot of those blog posts
that are giving you a solution that
will work today, but
let's say that with modern ECMAScript,
there are better ways to
apply that design pattern.
So have in mind that.
And because in JavaScript there are many
ways to implement the same design pattern.
Because JavaScript is a dynamic language,
it has this dynamic nature inside,
that means that the same problem can
be solved in very different ways.
And there is no best way, okay?
So we will use one way here, but
if you don't like that way, well,
if you understand the idea and what's
the problem we are solving and how we
are solving the problem, go ahead and
write your own version, it's fine, okay?
So, and I think this is another
important advice that I have for you.
Mostly if you are searching on the web for
design patterns,
don't implement design patterns
as if you're writing Java.
Most of the design patterns,
including the ones in the book
are actually targeting Java or
Java-like languages.
Even some blog posts about web
apps are actually taking the Java
implementation and
just emulating that in JavaScript.
I don't think that's the best way to
implement design patterns in a web app.
We need to take the power of
JavaScript and use it in our favor.
Don't write JavaScript as if it's Java,
it's a general advice, but
specifically more important
with design patterns.